FacturXDotNet/README.md, before:

﻿# FacturX.NET - Models

The main goal of this library is to provide well-documented data structures to work with Factur-X data, based on the [Factur-X standard](https://fnfe-mpe.org/factur-x/) version 1.0.07.2.

The library is distributed as a [nuget package](#) (coming soon).
```
dotnet add package FacturXDotNet
```

## Getting Started

```csharp
await using FileStream myFileStream = File.OpenRead("path/to/my/file");

FacturXParser parser = new();
XmpMetadata xmp = await parser.ParseXmpMetadataInFacturXPdfAsync(myFileStream);
CrossIndustryInvoice cii = await parser.ParseCiiXmlInFacturXPdfAsync(myFileStream);

CrossIndustryInvoiceSchematronValidator validator = new();
FacturXValidationResult validationResult = validator.GetValidationResult(cii);

Console.WriteLine(validationResult.Success);
Console.WriteLine(validationResult.ValidProfiles.GetMaxProfile());
```

## Design Choices

This project consists of models that implement the Factur-X specification. The design choices ensure that the structure and documentation of the models remain as close as possible to the underlying Factur-X XML format.

### 1. Structural Consistency with Factur-X XML

The structure of the objects in this project closely matches the structure of the corresponding XML file. This ensures a direct and intuitive mapping between the object model and the XML representation.

For example:
- **XPath:** `/rsm:CrossIndustryInvoice/rsm:SupplyChainTradeTransaction/ram:ApplicableHeaderTradeSettlement/ram:SpecifiedTradeSettlementHeaderMonetarySummation/ram:TaxTotalAmount`
- **Property:** `crossIndustryInvoice.SupplyChainTradeTransaction.ApplicableHeaderTradeSettlement.SpecifiedTradeSettlementHeaderMonetarySummation.TaxTotalAmount`

### 2. Documentation Sourced from the Factur-X Specification

To ensure completeness and accuracy, the documentation for the classes and their properties is directly copied from the Factur-X specification. Each property is documented with the following details:
- **Summary:** The name of the concept in business terms (column I) and a description of the property's meaning and usage (column J).
- **Remarks:** Additional guidance on how the property should be used (column K).
- **ID:** The identifier of the property in the Factur-X specification (column E).
- **BR-\*:** Constraints and validation rules that must be fulfilled (column M).
- **CiiXPath:** The corresponding XPath in the Cross-Industry Invoice (CII) XML file within the Factur-X PDF document (column R).
- **Profile:** The Factur-X profile where the property is introduced (column AG).
- **ChorusPro:** Special considerations when using the property with the Chorus Pro platform (column L).

### 3. Intentional Redundancy for Documentation Clarity

The model intentionally introduces some redundancy to improve clarity and maintain accurate documentation. For example, instead of defining a single `TradeParty` object and using it for both the Buyer and Seller trade parties, the model defines separate classes:
- `SellerTradeParty`
- `BuyerTradeParty`

This separation ensures that each property is mapped to a unique business term from the Factur-X specification. If a single model were used for both cases, properties would need to match multiple business terms, making the documentation less precise and harder to interpret.

### 4. Support for Multiple Profiles

To ensure that a single object can support all Factur-X profiles, the model follows the constraints of the least restrictive profile, which is **MINIMUM**. This means that properties that are optional in MINIMUM remain nullable in all profiles, even if they are required in higher-level profiles such as BASIC or EN16931.

When working with higher profiles, users can assume that properties required by those profiles are set, even though they are technically nullable.

### 5. Reimplementation of Schematron Rules in C#

For performance reasons, the validation does not use the schematron file provided by the Factur-X standard. Instead, it implements the same set of rules has been reimplemented in C#.

Commit message:

feat: allow all fields of base CII to be null (#20)
This update allows all fields in the base `CrossIndustryInvoice` (CII)
to be nullable and introduces a new `MinimumCrossIndustryInvoice` class.
This wrapper enforces proper nullability annotations according to the
**MINIMUM** profile.

With this approach, we get the best of both worlds:  
- **`CrossIndustryInvoice`**: A flexible class that can represent any
CII data, even if it doesn't conform to the MINIMUM profile.
- **`MinimumCrossIndustryInvoice`**: A constrained version that
eliminates the need for null checks where compliance is required.

### Conversion  

Switching between the two is handled manually:  
```csharp
MinimumCrossIndustryInvoice minimumInvoice = invoice.AsMinimumInvoice();
CrossIndustryInvoice flexibleInvoice = minimumInvoice.ToCrossIndustryInvoice();
```  
or via implicit conversion:  
```csharp
MinimumCrossIndustryInvoice minimumInvoice = invoice.AsMinimumInvoice();
CrossIndustryInvoice flexibleInvoice = minimumInvoice;
```  

### Open Question  

I'm still exploring the best way to enforce validation when converting
from `CrossIndustryInvoice` to `MinimumCrossIndustryInvoice`. A possible
solution could be a validator with a method like:
```csharp
MinimumCrossIndustryInvoice CheckMinimumProfile(CrossIndustryInvoice invoice)
```

FacturXDotNet/README.md, after:

﻿# FacturX.NET - Models

The main goal of this library is to provide well-documented data structures to work with Factur-X data, based on the [Factur-X standard](https://fnfe-mpe.org/factur-x/) version 1.0.07.2.

The library is distributed as a [nuget package](#) (coming soon).
```
dotnet add package FacturXDotNet
```

## Getting Started

```csharp
await using FileStream myFileStream = File.OpenRead("path/to/my/file");

FacturXParser parser = new();
XmpMetadata xmp = await parser.ParseXmpMetadataInFacturXPdfAsync(myFileStream);
CrossIndustryInvoice cii = await parser.ParseCiiXmlInFacturXPdfAsync(myFileStream);

CrossIndustryInvoiceSchematronValidator validator = new();
FacturXValidationResult validationResult = validator.GetValidationResult(cii);

Console.WriteLine(validationResult.Success);
Console.WriteLine(validationResult.ValidProfiles.GetMaxProfile());
```

## Design Choices

This project consists of models that implement the Factur-X specification. The design choices ensure that the structure and documentation of the models remain as close as possible to the underlying Factur-X XML format.

### 1. Structural Consistency with Factur-X XML

The structure of the objects in this project closely matches the structure of the corresponding XML file. This ensures a direct and intuitive mapping between the object model and the XML representation.

For example:
- **XPath:** `/rsm:CrossIndustryInvoice/rsm:SupplyChainTradeTransaction/ram:ApplicableHeaderTradeSettlement/ram:SpecifiedTradeSettlementHeaderMonetarySummation/ram:TaxTotalAmount`
- **Property:** `crossIndustryInvoice.SupplyChainTradeTransaction.ApplicableHeaderTradeSettlement.SpecifiedTradeSettlementHeaderMonetarySummation.TaxTotalAmount`

### 2. Documentation Sourced from the Factur-X Specification

To ensure completeness and accuracy, the documentation for the classes and their properties is directly copied from the Factur-X specification. Each property is documented with the following details:
- **Summary:** The name of the concept in business terms (column I) and a description of the property's meaning and usage (column J).
- **Remarks:** Additional guidance on how the property should be used (column K).
- **ID:** The identifier of the property in the Factur-X specification (column E).
- **BR-\*:** Constraints and validation rules that must be fulfilled (column M).
- **CiiXPath:** The corresponding XPath in the Cross-Industry Invoice (CII) XML file within the Factur-X PDF document (column R).
- **Profile:** The Factur-X profile where the property is introduced (column AG).
- **ChorusPro:** Special considerations when using the property with the Chorus Pro platform (column L).

### 3. Intentional Redundancy for Documentation Clarity

The model intentionally introduces some redundancy to improve clarity and maintain accurate documentation. For example, instead of defining a single `TradeParty` object and using it for both the Buyer and Seller trade parties, the model defines separate classes:
- `SellerTradeParty`
- `BuyerTradeParty`

This separation ensures that each property is mapped to a unique business term from the Factur-X specification. If a single model were used for both cases, properties would need to match multiple business terms, making the documentation less precise and harder to interpret.

### 4. Nullable Properties for Flexibility

To ensure that the models can be used in a wide range of scenarios, all properties are nullable by default. This allows users to work with partial Factur-X data or to create new Factur-X documents without having to provide all properties.
It also allows the use of one model for all profiles, as properties that are not present in simpler profiles can be null.

### 5. Reimplementation of Schematron Rules in C#

For performance reasons, the validation does not use the schematron file provided by the Factur-X standard. Instead, it implements the same set of rules has been reimplemented in C#.
